Jira Fundamentals
-------------------
There are two main roles in Jira: users and administrators. 
you'll use Jira to track and manage your daily work. 

You won't be setting up new Jira projects. 
Or adjusting any advanced settings. 
Your Jira administrator or team leader will take care of that for you.

Jira user
----------

How they use Jira:

 - Update their assigned work items
 - Share progress with their team
 - View their team's progress on work and provide feedback

Jira administrator
-------------------

How they use Jira:

 - Configure Jira layouts, features, or permissions for a team
 - Plan resources based on bandwidth, prioritize issues across projects, 
   and build reports to track team performance

Your main role will be to update your work items
-------------------------------------------------

Jira can only help if you and your teammates consistently update your work items. 
In Jira, individual work items are called  issues . 
Issues are very important in Jira. 
You'll see them a lot throughout this course.

Issues can vary in size depending on how your team uses them. 
Some issues take months to complete. 
Other issues are finished in a few hours.

Working in Jira
---------------

What's a Jira project?

A project is a collection of issues.

In Jira, every single issue is attached to a project. 
Projects organize issues in whichever way your team prefers.

Your Jira projects will likely be set up for you. So no need to worry about creating new projects. 
For now, you'll need to know how to identify your projects and what your projects are named.

How do you identify your projects and see their names?

There are two ways to quickly identify your projects. 
One is at the top left of your screen, under the Jira logo. 
This shows the name of the project you are currently viewing. But you may be involved in more than one project.

To see all of your projects, find the main navigation bar and select the 'Projects' dropdown. 
This will show you a list of all the projects you have access to view.

How are projects named?

That depends on how your team has structured your work.

Sometimes projects are named after an entire team. 
For example, "Game Design Team" or "Marketing Team" or "Legal Team."

Other times, projects are named after a larger deliverable like an app version release. 
For example, "Vidzi App Release V2.7" or "Project Melon Web Launch."

Why should you care about project names?

Project names help you see how your team is structuring work. 
Is your project named after your team or after a deliverable? 

Knowing how your project is named will give you insight into how the work is being structured. 
And it will help you understand how best to use Jira for your own needs.

Boards are the most common way to see your work
-----------------------------------------------
You got a sneak peek of  boards  earlier. What's a board, again? 
A board is a visual display of work progress, often with 3-4 columns. 

These board columns have headers at the top representing the  status  of each issue. 
For example, statuses could be: To Do, In Progress, In Review, Done. 
Statuses are customized by each team, so yours may look different from the examples.

Move issue cards across the board as work gets done
----------------------------------------------------
The different status columns together represent a  workflow . 
A workflow is the path of statuses an issue will go through from start to finish. 
An example of a simple workflow is an issue moving from To Do to In Progress to Done.

When an issue is ready to be updated, the person responsible for the work can simply drag-and-drop the issue card to a different column on the board. 
This updates the issue's status so everyone on the team can be in the loop. 
Issues can move forward and backward in a workflow, depending on how the work gets done.

Kanban boards and Scrum boards
------------------------------

he example screens you've seen so far have shown a  Kanban board . 
Kanban boards are used by all types of teams. 
They illustrate a continuous flow of work. 
Issues continuously move in and out of the board from the start of the project until the end of the project.

Scrum boards  are mostly used by agile software development teams. 
Scrum boards bring in groups of issues that the team will attempt to complete during a fixed period of time, often a two-week "sprint." 
After a sprint is completed, a new scrum board is created for the next batch of issues in the project.

How are boards named?
----------------------

Just like projects, boards have specific names.

Boards sit within projects. 
A single Jira project can have several boards. 
A board is often named after a larger deliverable or team of people.

How do you see all of your boards?
----------------------------------

You probably have more than one board. 
Each Jira project often has multiple boards within it. 
To see all of your boards, navigate to the left project sidebar and select the board dropdown.

